	1. Data Security PG 4
		a. Architecture needs to include focus on what matters most
			i. What is most important
	2. Know thy organization PG 5
		a. Defensible architecture requires org awareness
			i. What are the assets? Where are they? Why are they critical? What do they need?
			ii. Network-centric
			iii. Data-centric
	3. Full stack security PG 6
		a. Applications rarely involve single components
		b. Web apps for example use servers and leverage a separate a db server
	4. Application problem PG 7
		a. Custom apps/ websites are problematic
			i. Packet inspection fails
			ii. No signatures for custom apps
			iii. No app control for custom apps
	5. Web application firewalls (WAF) PG 10
		a. A web app firewall is an app firewall for http apps
		b. WAF is a reverse proxy or local module on the web server
		c. Provides control around custom web apps without patches
	6. OWASP top 10
		a. WAF has strong focus on mitigating OWAP TOP 10
			i. Most 10 critical vulns
			ii. Injection, access controls, and broken authentication
		b. Web applications compose of 43% of breaches
		c. IPS or NGFW mitigate basic versions
			i. Not designed to handle HTTP deeply
			ii. Complex payloadsd using HTTP protocol
	7. Reverse Proxy PG 12
		a. Handles incoming requests
		b. Routes them to appropriate back-end service
		c. Can be on-prem or cloud
	8. SSL offloading PG 13
		a. Reverse proxy design includes ssl offloading (commonly)
		b. Process
			i. Clients establish ssl/tls connection
			ii. Then reverse proxy establishes connection to the end serverusing http
			iii. End-to-end encryption is supported
		c. Proxy inspection has full access to every request and response
	9. Web app firewall capabilities PG 14
		a. SSL offloading
		b. Content decoding
		c. Automatic learning
		d. HTTP attack mitigation
		e. Virtual patching
		f. Dynamic security actions, not just allow/deny
		g. Rate limiting
	10. ModSecurity PG 15
		a. ModSecurity is OS WAF
			i. Can be deployed as reverse proxy or local
			ii. Allows granular control
		b. Commercial solutions exist
			i. May not be as flexible as MOD
			ii. Rule syntax  example : SecRule VARIABLES OPERATION [ACTIONS]
			iii. Example of rule : Secrule REQUEST_HEADERS:HOST "!^$" "deny,phase:1"
			iv. Modsecurity phases
				1) Request headers
				2) Request body
				3) Response headres
				4) Response body
				5) Logging
	11. WAF Challenges PG 16
		a. Not foolproof
			i. There are methods to identify a WAF (fingerprinting)
			ii. Multiple Techniques to bypass WAF
		b. Potential WAF issues
			i. Each web server reacts differently to requests
			ii. There are valid encoding techniques
			iii. OS interpret paths differently
			iv. Evasion techniques
	12. Evasion example PG 17
		a. SecRule REQUEST_FILENAME "@streq /admin.php" \"chain,phase:2,deny"
SecRule ARGS:user  "!^[a-zA-Z0-9]+$"
		b. Rule looks for request to /admin.php with invalid user parameter
			i. If user field does not match regex deny the request
	13. WAF Normalization PG 18
		a. WAF should attempt some level of normalization
			i. Paths, variables and everything else
	14. Websockets PG19
		a. Web application firewalls are fairly mature
			i. Yet new protocols may not be supported by every vendor
			ii. WAF solutions still don't support websockets
				1) Websockets: full-duplex communication over a single TCP connection. API allows web apps to use WebSockets
	15. Deploying WAF PG 20
		a. Automatic Learning
			i. Traffic routes through WAF for period of time
			ii. The WAF determines : Methods, entry points variables, content types, statistics heuristics
			iii. After learning can flip to deny
		b. Manual, All settings manually tuned
			i. May support templates
				1) Select OS
				2) Select web server
				3) Select programming language
				4) Select back-end database
			ii. Lots of fine-tuning
	16. WAF allow listing PG 21
		a. Default config to deny list known evil
			i. FAR more secure to only allow expected traffic
	17. Central Web server PG 22
		a. Key advantage is centralized protection
			i. Possible to apply security policies across web servers
	18. Web vulnerability scanner integration PG 23
		a. Vulnerability web scanners are specific to web servers
			i. Scanners can integrate with a WAF
			ii. Aunetix, HP webInspect, IBM app scan
			iii. Can be automatic or manual
		b. Vulnerability reports can be imported into WAF solutions
			i. Provides virtual patching of vulnerability
			ii. Automatic integration geared towards minimal false positives, which means the vuln might be exploitable
	19. Virtual Patching PG 24
		a. Business push developers to build sites and move on
			i. Websites stay vulnerable as a result
		b. Virtual patching uses a WAF to mitigate the risk without recoding the application
			i. Trust fix is to fix the vulnerable code
			ii. Virtual patching should be temporary
				1) Often ends up being permanent
	20. Moving Past allow/deny PG 25
		a. Action against clients is not limited to allow or deny
			i. Dynamic actions can be taken
			ii. The higher the risk identified the more restriction applied
				1) Odd character submissions require email validation to continue
				2) Account or checkout lockouts requiring a phone call or chat
	21. Content Routing PG 26
		a. WAF can dynamically route traffic among web servers
			i. Capability intended for performance and load balancing
			ii. Can be used to add content to existing servers virtually
	22. WebLabyrinth PG 27
		a. Design is to confuse or break scanners
		b. Supports automated alerting
		c. Normally requires set up on each server
			i. Works best with robots.txt
	23. WAF detection PG 28
		a. Strong preventative technology
			i. Detection capabilities outweigh prevention
		b. Public sites are going to be attacked
			i. Detection helps identify who, what, where
		c. Best detection capabilities are for internal servers
			i. Near impossible to attack a web server without flagging
		d. Nearly impossible to attack a webserver without flagging
	24. Web app firewall review PG 29
		a. Reverse proxy to secure web servers
			i. Consider a commercial WAF or ModSecurity
		b. Implentation should include normalization of data (paths, variables) 
		c. Patch identified vulnerabilities
		d. Add centralized protection and detection capabilities 
		e. Move past traditional allow and deny mentality
		f. Bolster detection capabilities
	25. Database Monitoring and Controls  PG 34
		a. Critical data is often stored in a database
			i. Database security is different than web security
		b. Database security
			i. Controlling who can access data
			ii. Applying limits to data access
			iii. Identify sensitive data locations
			iv. Heavy detection focus
	26. Database logging pg 35
		a. Most db's have logging disabled by default
			i. Otherwise generic service logs but missing audit trails
		b. Recommended logging capabilities
			i. Change tracking - Record changes
			ii. Compliance criteria -  Success and failure events
			iii. Trigger logs - Custom events
			iv. Query logs - SQL statements
		c. Each cause performance issues
	27. Database security PG 36
		a. Built-in security is decently strong
			i. Local or centralized authentication
			ii. Access can be restricted to DB, table, or columns
				1) Some DB's even support record level access
			iii. Supports groups or custom roles
			iv. Defines ownership and privilege granting
	28. Database security issue PG 37
		a. DB's are commonly paired with web servers
			i. Web servers pass-thru authentication to the db
			ii. Common for a service account to be used
		b. Creates a key security issue
			i. User1 logs in to web server to run report
			ii. Web server logs into the db with the service account
			iii. Often user1 can escalate to the privileges 
	29. Content discovery PG 38
		a. Securing data requires knowing where data resides
			i. Certain fields usually intended for sensitive data
				1) SSN, Credit Card numbers, Driver's license
			ii. Other fields are  often have sensitive data as well
				1) Comments, additional info, notes
		b. Content discovery must be done on a regular basis
			i. Involves crawling through databases on file systems looking for data
	30. Content Discovery Script example PG 39
		a. Less than 40 lines of code including 10 lines of comments
			i. Loops through each db, table, and column. Then checks all values
	31. Data Masking PG 40
		a. Possible to show partial matches or entirely mask data
			i. Data masking hides actual values from certain users
		b. One user sees social security number 123-45-6789
		c. The second user sees social xxx-xx-6789
		d. Masking allows business processes to continue
	32. Database activity monitor (DAM) /  Database firewall (DBF)
		a. Database monitoring fills gaps in Database security
		b. Supports heterogenous databases
			i. MySQL, Microsoft SQL, Oracle, MariaDB, IBM DB2
			ii. Some support big data platforms like HDFS and HIVE
		c. Can apply rules on original user vs. service account
		d. Auditing and logging significantly approved
		e. Adds significant prevention capabilities
		f. Apply controls based on requesting application
	33. Deployment Modes PG 42
		a. Local software installed on the DB server
			i. 3-5% performance impact
		b. Reverse proxy in front of server
			i. Clients access proxy directly
			ii. Proxy controls request to database
		c. Passive monitor out-of-band
			i. Port mirror or tap sends copy of traffic to DAM/DBF
	34. Behavior monitoring PG 43
		a. Most database security solutions implement dynamic learning / behavior monitoring
			i. Goal is to profile user activity
			ii. What data is accessed normally
	35. User content awareness PG 44
		a. Possible for DAM/DBF to identify actual user requesting data
			i. Regardless of service account usage
		b. Software solution requires visibility into logs of requesting service
			i. SQL server report services (SSRS)
		c. Proxy may need application to pass service account and user
			i. Works by passing both users with a delimiter or extra field
			ii. Requires making changes to front-end system like SSRS DB Name Master username jhenderson|svc_account
		d. Passive solution needs visibility to both SQL and front-end traffic
	36. Application awareness PG 45
		a. Should access limitations be different to Excel VS SSRS
			i. What about Powershell, Python, PHP, or .NET?
		b. Key offering of DAM/DBF solutions is application awareness
			i. Audit logs include application
			ii. Allows for situation awareness
			iii. Allows controls based on application
		c. May wish to limit access to sensitive columns to certain applications
			i. Or limit the number of rows that can be retrieved
	37. Record limits PG 46
		a. Large data breaches are occurring more often
			i. A web service is the common target
		b. DAM tracks record counts and can integrate with a SIEM
			i. Zeek can provide similar support
		c. Even if protection controls don't exist using record limits
			i. Alert on records pulled by source or app that exceed threshold
				1) Threshold per single
				2) Threshold per aggregate sessions within a time frame
				3) Potentially thrshold alert per all sources per time frame
	38. Database monitoring and controls Review PG 47
		a. Web app and db controls are necessary
			i. Databases are critical components with lots of data
		b. Built-in security mechanisms or a DAM should be used to:
			i. Limitcb
	39. Access Controls PG 49
		a. Data protection
			i. Access control and encryption
		b. Access control focuses on limiting access to data
			i. Goal is model of least privilege and detection
		c. Data encryption focuses on making data unreadable
			i. Primarily a physical security control
	40. Windows permissions PG 51
		a. File and folder permissions set per users or group
			i. Permissions inherit from parent objects
			ii. Inherited permissions can be removed or overridden
			iii. Access is cumulative
		b. Explicit permissions win over inherited
			i. Example : Deny user1 on C:\test
			ii. Allow user1 on c:\test\subfolder
			iii. User1 can access c:\test\subfolder
	41. Windows Rights PG 52
		a. Windows rights outrank access controls
			i. Change permissions as needed
		b. Backup Files and directories
		c. Restore files and directories
		d. Default rights include anyone who is an administrator
	42. Windows auditing PG 53
		a. Auditing is supported for just about every action in Windows
			i. Requires audit object access to be enabled
			ii. Records actions against files/folders/printers/AD objcets
		b. Auditing is a security function
			i. Denied access = Why?
				1) Rogue internal users
				2) Hackers performing laterally movement
				3) Ransomware
	43. Volume Shadow copy service PG 54
		a. Windows VSS keeps record of changes on disk
			i. Windows automatically creates shadow copies over time
			ii. Always created during certain events
		b. Intended for rollback purposes
		c. Ransomware tries to use vssadmin.exe to delete copies
		d. Malware may crawl shadow copies
	44. Linux Permissions PG 55
		a. Permissions (r,w,x)
			i. Read is 4, write is 2, execute is 1
			ii. Permission 6 is read and write
		b. Permissions are assigned to owner, group, and everyone
			i. 741 = owner has rwx, group has r, and everyone has execute
	45. Linux special permissions PG 56
		a. Permissions have security ramifications
		b. Set-User Identification (SUID) - Executes file as file owner
			i. /usr/bin/passwd uses SUID to change password
		c. Warning attackers use SUID privilege escalation
			i. Find / -perm -4022 -exec ls -l {} \; | 2>/dev/null
			ii. Set-group identification (SGID) -Executes file as group owner
				1) On folders, new content is owned by group owner of SGID
			iii. Sticky bit - protects files from being removed from other users
				1) Only root and owner can delete
	46. Access control monitoring PG 57
		a. Users gain permissions over time
		b. Find excessive permission issues like everyone group allowed
			i. Owner can verify user access
			ii. Owner could be top-level folder owner or mapped in script
			iii. Automatic alerting using Windows events
	47. Access control review PG 58
		a. Limit special rights
		b. Monitor for insecure permission usage
		c. Verify permissions enforce the least privilege
		d. Do more than prevent access
	48. Data encryption pg 60
		a. Data at rest is still at risk of being stolen
			i. USB drives, swappable drives, laptops, mobile devices
				1) Portable media and devices are high risk
				2) Accidental loss still constitutes a data brech
			ii. Ponemon estimates average cost per record $146
		b. Encryption at rest protects data from disclosure
			i. Significantly decreases costs and risk of data breach
			ii. Implementation varies based on what is being encrypted
	49. Encrypted data PG 61
		a. Assume stolen data or accidental loss of media
			i. Encryption makes data unreadable
		b. Now assume hacker gains remote access to server
			i. Data is encrypted and mounted for user access
			ii. Does the hacker have access to the data?
			iii. Is the data cleartext or encrypted
		c. Most encryption solutions do not protect mounted data
	50. Database encryption pg 62
		a. Modern database systems natively support encryption
			i. Encryption capable at multiple layers
		b. Database-level -  Encrypts entire database file at rest
		c. Table-level - Encryption per table
		d. Cell-level - specific collumns
	51. Encrypted File-system (EFS) PG 63
		a. EFS can be sued to encrypt a user's files or folders
			i. Symmetric key protected by asymmetric key
			ii. Contents encrypted with symmetric key
		b. Default symmetric key is protected by user password
			i. User key or recovery agent needed to access data
			ii. Local administrator is default recovery agent
			iii. Local PKI will be used over self-signed certificate
				1) Allows multiple key recovery agents to be issues
	52. Full Disk Encryption PG 64
		a. Instead of encrytion files, folder, databases, why not just encrypt everything
			i. Performance decrease is usually 5-10%
		b. Depending on the solution disk encryption requires user interaction
		
			
